hello i'm alex from e2 language in this
video i'm gonna take you step by step
through
an ielts writing task two before we get
started i just want you to imagine
that you were preparing for a marathon
a running race how would you do it would
you
listen to people talking about a
marathon
would you watch youtube videos like this
with somebody talking about how to run a
marathon or
would you start running would you
practice running
that's what i want you to keep in mind
in this video there are lots of
opportunities for you to
answer questions to think and of course
to write so i really want you to do it
if you are preparing for the paper
delivered test
stop now grab a pen and paper i want you
to write by hand
if you're getting ready for the computer
delivered test you're going to type
let's get into it ielts writing task 2
write with me
now we're going to go through four steps
basically in this class and these are
the same
four steps that we use in all of our
methods videos
on e2language.com and in our live
classes
as well and at the end of this session
actually throughout the session you are
going to write with me
and at the end i'm going to show you the
full sample essay
and i want you to edit it okay so let's
get started
step one is to analyze and plan this is
the case for every
topic in task two step two we're going
to follow the structure i'll show you
the basic
outline today step three we write with
the criteria in mind and step
four right at the end check your work
so in the real test you've got to think
about timing of course so this is what
we would recommend
about four minutes to analyze and plan
when you first see your topic
32 minutes this is the writing state so
the intro the body is the conclusion
and another four minutes at the end to
check your work in today's lesson don't
worry about the time
i'll put time is on the screen but in
this case i really just want you to
practice writing don't worry too much
about writing with time pressure if you
want to write with time pressure come
along to our live classes we do it all
the time
let's analyze and plan here is today's
task
and this task was sent in by one of our
students a recent
topic from a real ielts test let's check
it out
now we've got our instructions here at
the top you should spend about 40
minutes on this task
instructions here at the bottom give
reasons for your answer
include any relevant examples from your
knowledge or experience
write at least 250 words those
instructions are the same on every task
here in the box is the different part
it says some schools have restricted the
use of
mobile phones is this a positive
development
or a negative one now before you
start writing we need to look at this
question we need to
analyze it this is going to be crucial
on test day as well if you
race ahead and start writing you might
miss something critical
so just a few seconds on this now the
first one here
it says some schools have restricted the
use of mobile phones restricted the use
of mobile phones
my first question that i'm asking myself
why
and my question to you why have schools
restricted the use of mobile phones
think about it or you can type it into
the comments below
and my second question is how how have
schools
restricted the use of mobile phones
think about
your country if you have kids or you
know kids
what are the rules about mobile phones
at their school
are they completely banned from the
campus
are they allowed in some areas and not
other areas
are they off limits inside the classroom
so how does this play out
in your country and in your experience
so this first question is just a given
some schools
have rules about mobile phones
okay but here is our actual question is
this a positive development
or a negative one
and here you need to think about your
own opinion on this matter
a question like this to me the easiest
option to go with
is that yeah it's positive but before i
launch into that i've got to make sure
i've got
usually two good reasons why is it a
positive development
on the other hand you may think it's bad
you might think that there should be no
rules about mobile phones
can you back that up with some strong
reasons
for me i'm going to say that it's a
positive development
okay and i'm thinking here about myself
as a child in a classroom i'm thinking
about children i know
in classrooms i'm thinking about myself
as a teacher or my friends as
teachers how do restrictions in schools
on mobile phones
improve life for them so to me
it seems like it's a positive thing okay
and one reason
why is it a positive development i think
because
less phone access improves learning
so this is my main point and this is
going to be my first
body paragraph this is the the main idea
of that whole paragraph
schools have restricted mobile phones
and this is a positive development
because
less phone access is good for learning
that's not enough now i have to really
develop that idea
i'm aiming at band 8 band 9 and part of
the criteria
is about idea development so i run
through
a series of questions in order to flesh
out my
paragraph so i'm thinking here
explain example effect link
you can probably spot here i'm using a
single idea paragraph if you want to
know more about the paragraph structures
that we use at e2 and that we find
really successful
that's in our writing task 2 section of
the course on e2 language
but basically i want to ask myself these
questions
okay so my point is that less phone
access improves learning
how does that happen how does not having
access to phones
improve learning think about that for a
moment
i would say because there are fewer
distractions in the classroom
so fewer distractions less urge to grab
my phone
less buzzing and beeping happening
next thing i want to include in my
paragraph is an example
so here i'm thinking prove it how can i
make the examiner
see and feel what i'm talking about so
here i'm going to
paint a picture of a student or students
in a classroom and
that constant urge they have and the
constant urge that we have as
adults to check our phones and obviously
all of this means
less attention is given to the teacher
and also the teacher has less
time to give to the students because
they're checking everybody's
phones going off my next point here is
the effect
so now i'm really stretching out my idea
okay so
less phone access can improve learning
how fewer distractions
imagine kids in class with their phone
beeping and buzzing how annoying that is
then what's the effect so what so what
if the kids are distracted by their
phones what impact
does that have on them on the rest of
the class on their future
so i'm going to say takes attention from
the lesson
this also reduces their attention span
both these things can have long term
impacts so this effect
part is a real stretching of my idea
thinking band 8 band 9 fully developed
ideas
lastly i finished my paragraph with a
link
so this is a link forward to the next
paragraph i might start to introduce the
next idea or
a link back to the topic and really here
i'm asking myself
am i still on topic sometimes at the end
of your paragraph
you might notice that actually you've
drifted really far away from the
question
so use this sentence to just check that
you haven't gone too far
and hopefully just to kind of tie up
that paragraph so for me
i'm going to basically say so banning
phones in the classroom
is positive so i'm just coming back to
that main point
and this is the skeleton of my body one
paragraph okay so that's just one
paragraph
introduction's already done now i need
my second
body paragraph okay and here this is
where i want you to have a think
about another reason so i've said one
phone restrictions are good because it
helps learning
what is another reason why limiting
phone use
at school could be positive so think
here maybe
outside the classroom in the playground
or in the
group areas of a school why would
not having your phone be beneficial
something that i think is that less
phone use improves
well-being for students so health
and also the social aspect of being at
school
can be improved when students don't have
full access to their phones
now for this same point i want to go
through those questions
and that extension of my idea but i want
you to do this one
so you can use my idea that less phone
use improves well-being
or you can use your own idea totally
fine
and i want you to take 90 seconds now
to go through all of those steps all of
those questions to develop your idea
here we go
[Music]
so probably seems like that took a long
time but on test day you'll do all of
that
within four minutes no problem and it's
a very important step don't skip it
so after that we are ready to follow the
structure and begin
writing now this is the essay structure
that i'm going to recommend
there are many different ways to
structure your essays
basically it comes down to an
introduction and a conclusion
and what goes in between depends on the
question
and depends on your answer but basically
you're going to choose either
single idea paragraphs or double idea
paragraphs
or a mixture of the two and you're going
to have a minimum of two body paragraphs
minimum of two but sometimes you'll have
three you may even have four
for my one today i'm going to use two
body paragraphs
my intro follows these three steps
background statement a specific
statement
and the answer to the question body one
i'm going to give my first
reason and body two my second reason why
it's
positive development and then i'll
finish with the conclusion
so with all that in mind now we are
ready to write and we're going to write
with our criteria in mind
as always these are the four criteria
task response coherence cohesion
lexical resource grammatical range and
accuracy
just before we go on i want you to take
60 seconds
and type or write down or just think
about
all of the features of these four
criteria can you remember
what do you have to do to score well in
task response
coherence and cohesion so just take a
moment
and remind yourself of those important
things if you're a little bit
lost you don't know what the criteria
are or
how you can meet them check out our
video on the writing task 2 criteria
here on youtube
or we have an even better one over in
our course on e2language.com
take a minute now to see what you can
remember
[Music]
how did you go here are some of the
basic things that you should keep
in mind i won't go through them in
detail but
pause or take a screenshot if you want
and
make sure you write with all of these
things on your mind
so i've got my plan i've analyzed the
question
i know how i'm going to structure my
essay i know how to structure a single
idea paragraph and a double idea
paragraph
i've made all of those decisions let's
write our introduction
on the screen i've got our question at
the top and my introduction
structure in the middle so background
statement the topic specific statement
the task so i go from quite broad
what are we talking about here the topic
that we're dealing with is
phones in schools right the task
what exactly is the question that we're
dealing with
and the third sentence what do i think
about it what's my opinion
what's coming up in my essay okay i'm
going to step you through it here
this is my background statement in most
schools around the world
students have their own mobile phone
super simple background statement
just letting the reader know this is the
area that we're in today
specific statement so i want to deal
with the task here
now remember up here some schools have
restricted the use of mobile phones is
it positive or negative
while these devices can undoubtedly play
a role in
safety connectedness and even learning
many schools have chosen to restrict
their use
on campus notice already that i've got
coherence and cohesion in mind with my
linking words these devices their
use also i've got a complex sentence
starting with the subordinating
conjunction while
third sentence in my view this is a
positive step
and can bring benefits not only
academically
but physically and socially too so
the reader knows what my opinion is
there is no doubt
i think it's positive and coming up in
my essay the reader expects to see how
it's positive
academically physically and socially
take a moment to read through and now
it's over to you i want you to write
your own
introduction and follow those three
steps you've got six minutes to do this
b did you use some cohesive devices in
your intro
are there any complex sentences in there
have you checked your spelling
have you used some topic-specific vocab
keep that criteria in your mind intro is
done
let's go on to body one
and this is how i'm going to structure
my body one single idea paragraph i use
the acronym
peel point explain example effect
link if you come to our live classes you
know that there should be some
flexibility with this structure
but it's a useful way to develop a good
paragraph
and i'm going to step you through it
sentence by sentence but i want you to
write
with me so i'm going to give you the
first sentence and then i'm going to ask
you a question
okay so we're going to write together
sort of
here is my main point for this paragraph
my topic sentence
restricting phone use in the classroom
itself
can improve learning this is the main
point the big idea
okay so there we go we've got the first
sentence now i'm going to ask you a
series of questions
i want you to write a sentence then i'm
going to show you my sentence
okay so my first question now
is how or why so restricting phone use
in the classroom itself
can improve learning so my next part of
the paragraph is to explain
and i do that by answering these
questions
how does restricting phone use improve
learning okay take 90 seconds and write
your next
sentence go
[Music]
here's my answer to that question so
restricting phone use in the classroom
itself can improve learning this is
simply because
without these devices there are far
fewer distractions
for teachers and students okay so that's
the reason fewer distractions next
question
give me an example okay so i want you in
the next sentence or two sentences
to paint me a picture of a classroom
show me what it's like in a classroom
where students
are distracted by their phones okay so
you have 90 seconds for this
go
[Music]
and here's how i've developed that
example
this is simply because without these
devices there are far fewer distractions
for teachers and students
when a student has their phone in their
lap or pocket for instance
there is an irresistible urge to check
constantly for texts
alerts or social media updates even the
most observant teacher cannot prevent
them from sneakily checking their
messages
or scrolling through this irrelevant
material
during the lesson so my example is two
sentences long there
and i'm trying to paint that picture of
the reality of phones in the classroom
okay next question you ready
what effect can this have
so students in the classroom are
distracted by their phones everybody's
got a phone
it's beeping and buzzing what impact can
this have so think about the students
future think about the classroom dynamic
90 seconds i want you to write the next
sentence now
[Music]
okay what effect can this have here's my
answer
these endless distractions draw
attention away from
important educational matters and erode
attention spans which can have long-term
effects
on academic progress so these
distractions
take attention from important things
they have an impact on how long you can
concentrate
and all of this can have a long-term
impact
final thing onto the link now remind me
why should phone use be restricted so
we're going to come back to our question
here or our
idea that it's a good idea to restrict
phone use
so final sentence tell me again why
should phone use be restricted 90
seconds
go
[Music]
here's my final sentence a blanket ban
on phones
during class frees learners from this
compulsive checking
and allows them to focus it's
all wrapped up and that is our body one
it's
beautiful it's gonna score really well
it's fully developed there are
examples there's lots of topic-specific
vocab in there
it's linked together every sentence is
holding hands with the sentences
before and after let's go on to body two
so on the screen here i've got the topic
and i've got my intro
my body one and here is the structure
for
body two and i want you to write this
one without any help from me but go
through that same
process a topic sentence and then
explain
how or why prove it to me with an
example or paint me a picture
tell me about the effect so what what
what will happen
and link back to the topic so for this
one you have
for this you've got 10 minutes start
writing now
[Music]
so how did you go now remember i'm going
to show you a full sample at the end
that you're going to edit for me
but let's get the conclusion done
so intro body one body two done over to
the conclusion now
two sentences is enough for a conclusion
you wanna make a broad statement kind of
like the introduction
a broad statement about this topic of
phones in classrooms or phones in
schools
and then summarize your argument
summarize your opinion so just restate
the same things from body one and two
again and you've got
six minutes to do this go
[Music]
remember what i said about the marathon
runner make sure that you
are actually writing and doing the work
yourself don't just
watch or listen you've got to write if
you want to improve your writing
now it's time to check your work but in
this case you're going to check
my work first this is a list of the most
common errors that we see these are
mainly grammar and vocab
errors and you probably recognize some
of them
subject verb agreement that's a big
error really common error
errors with nouns articles of course are
and
the verb tenses prepositions
fragments uh run-on sentences
non-grammatical sentences
and so on down to punctuation and
spelling
these kind of errors can be either
serious ones or just
minor ones but too many of them will
cost you a band seven so you need to get
used to editing
and correcting them in your own work
okay but let's start with my essay
here it is and there are 14 errors in
this
essay so i want you to take two minutes
to try to find and fix all 14.
here we go
[Music]
so did you find all 14 could you fix
them i'll show you where they are
first of all so i've highlighted in
yellow
all of the spots with errors so for
example in the intro
we've got in most schools around the
world students have their own mobile
phone
while this device is can you see the
problems there hopefully you can
take another 60 seconds and try to fix
anything that you missed the first time
go
[Music]
are you feeling confident with that so
i'm gonna show you
the corrections just for the intro and
body one
okay and then i want you to put in the
comment box
the other errors so the problems in body
two
and the conclusion so tell me what the
correct
answer should be and if you want to
check you'll be able to download the
full essay
from the description below so here are
the corrections for
the intro and body one pause now
and just double check that you got it
right
and when you're ready give your
attention to body two
and the conclusion let me know in the
comments section what the correct
answers should be and then download and
check
with the full sample essay and that's it
you've written
a complete ielts writing task too but
if you want more check this out
when you log in at e2language.com
go to your course and click on writing
task 2.
here you'll find heaps of resources to
help you
prepare for this part of the test in the
overview section
you can find out all about the marking
criteria
the different essay types some golden
rules get our essay structures
then you can learn how to write intros
body paragraphs conclusions
plus join j as he steps you through
all these different types of essays from
opinions
to double questions thanks for riding
with me today
keep practicing and i'll see you soon
[Music]
you